Port WOA23 extrapolation from Compass (#528)
E3SM-Project/polaris: docs/users_guide/ocean/tasks/global_ocean.md

(ocean-global-ocean)=

# global_ocean

This category contains ocean preprocessing tasks that are upstream of any
particular MPAS mesh. The first task builds a reusable World Ocean Atlas 2023
(WOA23) hydrography product on the native 0.25-degree latitude-longitude grid.

## supported models

This task is model-independent and does not require either MPAS-Ocean or
Omega to be built.

(ocean-global-ocean-woa23)=

## woa23

This task is the Polaris port of the legacy Compass
`utility/extrap_woa` workflow. It combines January and annual WOA23
climatologies, uses a cached `e3sm/init` combined-topography product on the
WOA grid to define the ocean mask used during preprocessing, and then fills
missing temperature and salinity values through staged horizontal and vertical
extrapolation.

The task can be set up with:

```bash
polaris setup -t ocean/global_ocean/hydrography/woa23 ...
```

### description

The task is organized into three inspectable steps:

1. `combine_topo` reuses a cached `e3sm/init` combined-topography step

>    configured for the WOA23 0.25-degree latitude-longitude grid.

Author: ```suggestion
1. `combine_topo` from the `e3sm/init` component is used to combine topography GEBCO and 
   Bedmap3 datasets on the WOA23 0.25-degree latitude-longitude grid.
```
